The next topic we're gonna take on,
represent us picking up where we left
off in TypeScript Fundamentals V4.
We were talking about generics
at the end of that course, and
now we're gonna talk about
generic scopes and constraints.
Generic constraints are the ability
to specify a minimum
requirement on a type parameter.
And I'm gonna begin with
an example that illustrates,
the importance of having
something like this.
So in the exercise we completed
in the generic section of
TypeScript Fundamentals V4,
it involved us taking an array
of objects that have some sort of ID
on them, in this case, customerId.
And we converted them to kind
of like a equivalent dictionary
representation of the same data.
And you can see here, we're just using the
customerId as the key in our dictionary
and we can look up a customer by ID now
without having to iterate through a list.
So the working code we ended up with at
the end of that exercise was this and
just to refresh everybody's memory
in case it's been a little bit
since you took the course.
And we've talked about a lot of things so
far, so we'll just,
well, I'll catch up here.
We ended up with a function called
listToDict that takes in a type parameter.
And that T represents
a couple different things,
or it's used in a couple different ways.
But here's what our T is.
It effectively represents one
of these members of the array,
or one of these values in our dictionary.
It's the same shape, right?
It's three properties and
there's an object.
Now, we ended up with a very
flexible implementation
that can handle a wide
range of different shapes.
But that's where the shape manifests,
right?
It's the type of an array member.
So we've got this type parameter T,
here's the list we take in as input, and
it's an array of Ts.
So this is where the inference happens,
right?
As soon as we say, here's the array
that I want to convert to a dictionary.
listToDict will then
understand what T is and
it will help us provide this
ID generation function.
And it'll know what the return
type is supposed to be cuz
it can infer T based on
the list that we give it.
So we're gonna enter inside of the
function we create an empty dictionary of
the correct type, so
it can have any key that is a string, and
it can have a value of type T.
We iterate over the list,
we call this ID generation function,
which we pass it an item,
it gives us an ID.
Here's that function.
It's a function just for
obtaining an item's ID.
We leave it to the caller
to provide that for us so
that we can be maximally flexible,
and then we return the dictionary.
So this is the most complicated
thing that's going on, but
hopefully, we can
understand how this works.
It's iterating over an array and
it's transforming it into a dictionary or
a hash.
All those words mean kinda the same thing.
Okay, so let's think about
how we might implement this.
Let's add an additional convention
to the solution that we made for
the TypeScript fundamentals problem.
So here we have customer ID and
an ID generation function.
But let's say we wanted to drop
the ID generation function, and
just operate by some convention
where if we have properties with ID,
we'll just pick that up.
We just know that there's an ID
that's going to be present,
and we can use that, right?
That lets us simplify this.
We can get rid of this, and
look at how much easier this
function is to understand, right?
You get a list of T's, you get
a dictionary of T's fed back to you.
It's less abstract and
maybe for our use case,
everything has an ID property and
this will do just fine.
So let's look at how we might
implement this without using generics.
Well, first, we could create
a type alias or an interface,
it doesn't really matter, called HasId.
This is,
represents anything that has a property
called ID whose value is a string.
We're going to want an interface
that represents a dictionary.
So this is a dictionary that's
generic over type T which is the value
type that's in the dictionary,
and we've removed generics now.
So this function gets
a little bit simpler and
let me comment out this one above just so
we don't collide.
So we take in a list of
objects that are HasId,
that make sure that we
have an ID on each object.
We can iterate over each of
the items because there HasId, well,
we know it's there.
We don't need to call this
function to generate IDs anymore.
We just know the properties there
because it's sort of like a minimum
requirement we have placed on list,
and we have that guarantee now.
And then we return the dictionary and
it seems like it works.
So the problem here is we have lost,
if we do listToDict,
Let's not do phone list
because those don't have IDs.
So we'll say a and then,
Something like that.
Let me create these in a variable here, so
I don't get excess property
checking yelling at me.
Just create a bunch of these.
All right, so we've got an example
of things that have IDs on them,
and we're gonna call listToDict,
pass in the testArr.
What's our test result?
And if we look at test result,
Look at that,
only the id property is available.
And of course, that's because
this is what we're returning.
So we've stated a requirement on our
input but that requirement is kind of,
all we know about this is that
they have the property ID,
we can't create a more
specific result here.
We've lost the flexibility that our
generics, or type parameter gave us.
The point of the type parameter was we
could be flexible, while still retaining
type information and letting it
pass straight through our function.
So let's see if we can bring our type
parameter back into the function.
So this is the new function head or
the beginning of the declaration.
So I'm gonna drop it in place.
And just so
you can look at them side-by-side,
what we're doing here is
we're replacing HasId with T.
And instead of a dictionary of HasId,
it's a dictionary over type T.
So if we use that, Well,
we'd have to change this to T as well.
So if we look at our test result,
that looks a lot better, right?
Color is there.
If we did testResult.a., there's color.
The type information is passing
through our function again, but
look at this, we can't access.id
because T could be anything.
T could be literally anything.
So what we need here is
to describe a constraint.
We've looked at two options here.
In this option, we had some guarantee,
like a minimum requirement, for
what we could accept in our list.
It has to be objects
containing an ID property.
And here, we have flexibility, but
we lost that minimum requirement.
A type parameter constraint
lets us have both.
It lets us kind of get
the best of both worlds here.
Let me comment this out, so
it doesn't screw up syntax highlighting.
And we already put that in.
So what we're gonna
need to do here is say,
T extends HasId.
There's our type parameter constraint.
There's our id.
So that internally,
these look like HasId objects.
In fact, look at that.
It's being regarded as a HasId.
Look at the tooltip.
But the distinction here is,
we're still using a type parameter here.
Anything that goes beyond
satisfying the HasId interface,
like this color field, it's preserved and
it flows through this function.